Now, the second large network, the entire digestive system.
This will be the vitelline system.
What is the great receptacle? It's our liver.
I remind you that the liver is a meeting of a combination of two tissues.
A mesodermal tissue and an endodermal tissue.
I have my endodermal tube which is like this.
I have the upper, middle and lower intestine.
And the junction between my upper intestine and my middle intestine
will emerge from here.
what is called the liver, in the form of an aspiration field. This is just a subtle name
of the digestive tissue. Vitelline vein, mesodermal structure to form my liver. The
cephalization
leads to cardinalization, which leads to diaphragmatization, which will lead to
the side of hepatic congestion on a mesodermal plane, therefore by
the integration
vitelline. I have the movement of cephalization, which will lead to the movement of
cardinalization.
will lead to the movement of diaphragmatization and which will ultimately lead, with
my
vitelline system, a phase of congestion here, under the diaphragm.
And this area of congestion is the basis of what we will call the mesodermal
development of the liver.
It receives no umbilical information initially, it is informed
by the products
of disassimilation coming from the brain, coming from the lower trunk and coming from the
vitelline
vesicle.
So, it takes...
impulse, it's an area where it receives toxicity, so the liver is
an organ that
in its function has a role of receiving toxicity, of transforming it, it's the
first
impulse it receives, then it would have a regenerative impulse later.
I have my right vitelline vein in orange, my left vitelline vein.
I already have a small anastomosis that has formed between the two, and what do I have there?
I have the hepatic cord coming from the endoderm.
between my two vitelline veins, left and right,
this will form a whole network that becomes congested, that forms here.
And then this whole network will begin to organize to form the venous duct,
to form later here what we will call the gastric vein,
the gastro-epiploic vein, and especially an important area which is my portal vein.
Another level, here, the umbilical vein.
One part will be integrated, but another part will disappear.
It's a whole network of vitelline systems that will meet to
form a ball,
a very specific vascular network.
So look at this whole network, how it develops, which comes from the vitelline network, which is a drainage system. This development takes place under the septum transversum, and the vitelline vein which is located under this septum can finally be divided into three sections. A suprahepatic section which will finally form... the hepatic duct to form the hepatic vein, a hepatic section and an infrahepatic section, 1, 2, 3. The suprahepatic section, the right vitelline vein becomes the hepatic vein, it is the region of flow towards the heart, another derivative of this vitelline part is the upper part of the inferior vena cava.
The suprahepatic section, the right vitelline vein becomes the hepatic vein, it is the region of flow towards the heart, another derivative of this vitelline part
is the upper part of the inferior vena cava.
So there are still regressions that will occur, the left umbilical vein.
It regresses, but the right umbilical vein, a part will remain.
This is where this connection will be made, you see, to form the hepatic sinusoids, if you will,
with my vitelline and umbilical vein here.
And we see that the left umbilical vein will make this connection.
And little by little, it will disappear later, in its upper part.
But it is especially this canal, this famous ductus venosus, which will be formed with my portal trunk.
In the infrahepatic region, the left vitelline vein will regress,
but not before having developed an anastomosis with the right vitelline vein.
This will cause a change in blood drainage,
where it will pass from the left side of the abdominal viscera
to flow towards the right vitelline vein,
to create this entire transverse network that will develop.
So we will have a switch, this time, from the left side to the right side,
on the venous plane, which will give...
this growth force also to the right. All the blood coming from the mesenteric side
here on the right
will be drained by the portal system and will mainly be found in the
right liver, while everything
that is inferior stomach, spleen and inferior colon will rather drain
at the level of the
left liver, and in fact we can even find two currents
within the Portal system itself, one that will rather orient towards the left side and one rather
towards the right side.
You have a digestive, metabolic liver, and you have a motor, emotional liver.
Everything here will be related to the pure emotional system, stomach, spleen.
All that is dreams, nightmares, etc., I remind you, these are congestions that will be found here.
So the portal trunk will be common here, but what is quite astonishing is that we observe that there is a liver.
that there is a liver.
more, that it will not mix, or may mix. It
never regenerates on
its endodermal plane, but always regenerates on its mesodermal plane. So,
it can remake vessels, but it will not rebuild ducts. Because
the liver, ultimately, what is it? It is a set of integrated bile ducts
with many vessels. Always remember that the liver can only regenerate at
night. You have three levels. When you
eat, you have a lot of venous blood and little arterial blood.
The liver does not regenerate.
In the periods between meals, you have a roughly equal balance between arterial blood
and venous blood.
The liver regenerates a little.
At night, when you sleep, you have a lot of arterial blood and little venous blood.
That's why it's very, very, very good to fast.
You allow two things.
The liver to regenerate, you also allow...
also, all the cells
to become stronger.
Because at that moment, what are they forced
to do? They must release energy
coming from the inside
to the outside.
A rebalancing between
the heart, the liver,
the spleen and the mesenteric
system, so the small intestine.
This is a whole functional unit.
This means that it is a volume regulator.
of volume.
I increase or decrease my volume.
I can re-inject information. It is crucial in the development of the embryo
and
it will be crucial at birth. These are bone compressions, these are tissue compressions,
but these are enormous vascular changes. Imagine, all
the blood goes here,
congestion here, then the opposite. This must be treated on a fluidic level, a birth, not
just
on a compressive level. We can clearly see all these vascular networks that will be found here.
Retrohepatic conflict, really important in relation to the return to the heart.
The subhepatic confluence here, and also it's the jugular confluence.
These are really two big keys, there.
Be careful not to overload the heart in terms of venous return.
It must be in good systolic function.
You should never do this in diastole.
You will help it if it is a systolic liver.
You will allow them to resorb.
So, it is necessary to allow the facial function to be released to restore hepatic release.
Don't forget to properly...
this heart-spleen connection, all the movement of
the amniotic cavity and we see the vitelline vesicle
which is here, regressing and depositing on the umbilical cord and
there is just
at some point a loop that will develop as we saw last time, it was the development
in the vitelline vesicle and then the resorption that comes back here in relation to the umbilical cord
umbilical cord
to reintegrate the intestinal loop inside.
In this umbilical cord, I have the spiraling vessels in my embryonic pedicle
embryonic pedicle
and then I will have the connection of the two with the true remnant of the yolk sac that
will be placed here,
the intestinal tube, the embryonic pedicle that joins here
and then we see here with the allantois and all the process that is here.
So it's all the integration that comes back here with this large amniotic cavity.